Editorial review for Window Management API docs (#29719)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/api/screendetails/currentscreenchange_event/index.md

---
title: "ScreenDetails: currentscreenchange event"
short-title: currentscreenchange
slug: Web/API/ScreenDetails/currentscreenchange_event
page-type: web-api-event
status:
  - experimental
browser-compat: api.ScreenDetails.currentscreenchange_event
---

{{APIRef("Window Management API")}}{{SeeCompatTable}}

> The **`currentscreenchange`** event of the {{domxref("ScreenDetails")}} interface is fired when the {{domxref("ScreenDetails.currentScreen")}} changes in some way.
> 
> Specifically, a _change_ in this context means either:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`currentscreenchange`** event of the {{domxref("ScreenDetails")}} interface is fired when the {{domxref("ScreenDetails.currentScreen")}} changes in one of the following ways:
```

(more direct than "in some way" then saying what that means)

Author: Yup, that sounds good. Changed.

- The current screen changes to a different screen, i.e., the current browser window is moved to a different screen.
- The current screen's _basic observable properties_ change. These are:
  - {{domxref("Screen.width", "width")}}
  - {{domxref("Screen.height", "height")}}
  - {{domxref("Screen.availWidth", "availWidth")}}
  - {{domxref("Screen.availHeight", "availHeight")}}
  - {{domxref("Screen.colorDepth", "colorDepth")}}
  - {{domxref("Screen.orientation", "orientation")}}
- The current screen's _advanced observable properties_ change. These are:

>   - The screen's position ((x,y) coordinates of the top-left corner) inside the OS virtual screen arrangement, relative to the [multi-screen origin](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window_Management_API#multi-screen_origin)
>   - The screen's available position ((x,y) coordinates of the top-left corner) inside the OS virtual screen arrangement, relative to the [multi-screen origin](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window_Management_API#multi-screen_origin). This is equal to the screen position, plus the width/height of any OS UI elements drawn on the top-left of the screen — windows cannot be placed in those areas

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The screen's **position** ((x,y) coordinates of the top-left corner) inside the OS virtual screen arrangement, relative to the [multi-screen origin](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window_Management_API#multi-screen_origin)
  - The screen's **available position** ((x,y) coordinates of the top-left corner) inside the OS virtual screen arrangement, relative to the [multi-screen origin](/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window_Management_API#multi-screen_origin). This is equal to the screen position, plus the width/height of any OS UI elements drawn on the top-left of the screen — windows cannot be placed in those areas
```

(just a suggestion, because otherwise these two sentences are so similar I had to hunt for the differences.)

Author: Updated

  - {{domxref("ScreenDetailed.devicePixelRatio", "devicePixelRatio")}}
  - {{domxref("ScreenDetailed.label", "label")}}
  - The screen's designation as primary or secondary (see {{domxref("ScreenDetailed.isPrimary", "isPrimary")}})
  - The screen's designation as internal or external (see {{domxref("ScreenDetailed.isInternal", "isInternal")}})

## Syntax

Use the event name in methods like {{domxref("EventTarget.addEventListener", "addEventListener()")}}, or set an event handler property.

```js
addEventListener("currentscreenchange", (event) => {});

oncurrentscreenchange = (event) => {};
```

## Event type

> An event of type `currentscreenchange`, the event object of which is structurally equivalent to an {{domxref("Event")}}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A generic {{domxref("Event")}}.
```

(This section is intended to tell you the type of the argument passed into the handler. See e.g. http://localhost:5042/en-US/docs/Web/API/Element/mousemove_event#event_type, and https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/MDN/Writing_guidelines/Page_structures/Page_types/API_event_subpage_template#event_type.)

Author: OK, got it. Changed.

> {{InheritanceDiagram("Event")}}

Reviewer: This is not really needed: it won't draw anything anyway, because `Event` doesn't inherit from anything.

Author: Deleted

## Examples

```js
const screenDetails = await window.getScreenDetails();

> screenDetails.addEventListener("currentscreenchange", async (event) => {

Reviewer: This doesn't need to be `async`, does it?

Author: LOL, no. Updated!
